Terminal_Linux Command Line Codes: Type of command or function, its code, what it does and examples attached herewith. 

1. Current Directory: pwd
What it does: If you want to find out which directory you are in : type pwd
eg. /Users/dg663

2. Change Directory : cd
What it does: The cd command will change the directory you’re currently working within Terminal to execute other commands on a different directory.
Example: cd “path/to/directory/” like cd Desktop

3. Listing Directory: ls
What it does: Use ls command after navigating into a directory using the cd command to view the contents inside of the current directory. 
Example: ls and get everthing inside that directory.
Also, Use the argument -l command with ls to get even more information about each of the files.
Eg.  ls -l

4. Open Files: open 
What it does: When browsing a directory, you may encounter a file that you wish to open on your Mac. That’s where the open command comes in. 
Example: open “filename” i.e. open Dinesh     
and then a real dolder of Dinesh will open up in the new desktop window. 

5. Copy a file to another directory: cp
What it does: The cp command facilitates copying a file from one location to another or making a copy of the same file with a new name. 
Example: cp “filename” “newfilename with directory” i.e.  cp  Disease.docx  /Users/dg663/Documents/Disease.docx 
By doing so, I copied that file named Disease.docx into documents folder.

6. Move a file: mv
What it does: When you don’t want to copy a file, but instead move it, use the same format of the cp command, but instead replace cp with mv.
Example: mv “filename” “path/to/new/file/location” i.e.  mv Disease.docx /Users/dg663 (moved to dg663 folder)

7. Create a text file: touch
What it does: The touch command allows you to create any type of file, but it’s blank. 
After you create the blank file, you can open it in a text editor by typing open [filename].
Example: touch myfile.txt , also touch myfile.doc or touch myfile.csv
Then open myfile.txt   to open it. 

8. Create a directory or folder: mkdir
What it does: The mkdir command will allow you to create a directory (folder) from within the CLI. 
When you need a place to store new files, just use this command to add a new directory in the current working directory, or specify a full path to the location where you want the new directory to be placed.
Example: mkdir “path/to/new/directory” i.e. mkdir /Users/dg663/new so here a new folder created inside dg663

9. Rename folder: mv 
What it does: When you’ve created a folder that has the wrong name, you can easily use the mv command to rename it.
Eg. mv "oldfilename" "newfilename" i.e. mv myfile.txt file.txt

10. Remove an empty directory: rmdir
What it does: If you want to remove a directory altogether, use the rmdir command followed by the path to the directory.
Example: rmdir “path/to/directory” i.e rmdir /Users/dg663/new now removes that new folder.

11. Remove nested directories or folder: rm -R command
What it does: When you want to remove an entire directory that might contain other directories or files, then the rm -R command is where you will turn. 
This command is irreversible, unlike deleting files in the Finder and being able to restore them from the Trash. 
When this command is executed, all files and directories inside of the path you specify will be deleted immediately.
Example: rm -R “/path/to/root/directory” i.e. like mkdir /Users/dg663/test created a test directory or folder
 then this one removes it.  rm -R /Users/dg663/test

Note: Here rmdir removes only empty directory but rm -R removes both empty and non empty

12. Execute commands with superuser privileges: sudo command
What it does: sudo is a command that allows you to elevate your user privileges while executing the command to administrator privileges. 
This is required for some commands to run — for instance, removing a file that is owned by another user. 
When you run this command, you will see a password field appear in Terminal where you will need to type your user account password to finish the command execution.

Your Mac has security baked in at its core, which is why when typing a password, the command line hides the characters typed for security practices. 
Remember to never type your password into a field that you did not request!
Example: sudo “command” i.e like sudo open myfile.txt
Then, asked for password and you won't know if you have typed or not, it just looks empty. 
But keep on typing the correct password for your user account. 
If you are using computer from your school and you don't have full administration control, you might have to allow it manually like by using "self service control" software. 
You can install it by requesting your IT guys or even you might be able to download on your own. 

13. List all actively running computer processes: top
What it does: With top, you’ll see the stats of your system updated in Terminal’s window, such as the memory, CPU and disk utilization. 
You’ll also see a running list of the top apps using the CPU, including their state, ports used, memory per app and more, without needing to open the Activity Monitor app on your Mac. 
**Note that: This command will execute until you close Terminal’s window or press Control + C to return execution back to the CLI.**
Example: top 


